I only know I must hold on...
it's vital
I must hold on!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Life is made up of pieces
that don't fit
I want all of Claude, or nothing
if it's no... let it be like death
it's Muriel's answer
read it... I want your opinion
"dear Claude,
I'm glad you wrote me...
"thus ending a misunderstanding
and a false situation
"it's best to renounce
the marriage immediately
"Anne and I will always be
your friends
"the garden is superb
"we're going to London
to see the new plays
"regards from my mother.
Your sister, Muriel"
an excellent letter
I knew she was a sensible girl
are you reassured? Happy?
You're not happy?
Yes...
you took this on deposit?
The two of them
but this one's going back
to the gallery
time passed...
Claude had not become
an author...
but he wrote articles about art
his mother condoned his affairs...
many women were less
threatening than one
he forgot his "sisters"
in Wales, Muriel slowly recovered
at times she went to bed saying...
"today I didn't think about Claude"
did you know Anne brown
was in Paris?
Her mother wrote me
you didn't tell me
it was part of our agreement
but it's Anne... not Muriel
it's the same thing
I'll write her a note
instead of writing,
go talk to her
what about you?
I'll go exchange these books
I'll see you tomorrow
you're not angry?
No, I'm not
till tomorrow
been back in Paris long?
Since January
that's when I arrived!
How about me? Have I changed?
You seem serious,
but you look fine
don't you want news of someone?
Yes... how is she?
She's been sick... her eyes
but she's suffered more
from other things
I understand
and now?
She's better.
She works with children
she teaches Sunday school
actually, I can't tell you
much about her
she no longer confides in me
and I'm sorry
two words are never spoken
in our house...
the words "Claude" and "Paris"
Anne was becoming a sculptress
she had a studio in Paris
she now felt sure
Muriel and Claude...
would never get together.
Yet they'd come so close
no longer in Muriel's shadow...
Anne was the girl
that he'd first met
she was there for herself
and he liked that
they often went to look...
at Rodin's "Balzac",
done on commission...
then indignantly refused
Claude often went to Anne's studio
he encouraged her...
gave her confidence in her work
Claude found Anne especially
pretty today...
he sensed her heart beating like his
Muriel was no longer a barrier
he had a mad idea:
Caress her breast
why not try?
Would she be shocked,
or slap him?
No, Claude, wait...
listen to me
she moved away from him
to explain...
someone had always
overshadowed her...
dazzled her, silenced her.
It was Muriel
Anne had introduced Claude
to Muriel...
for pleasure,
to see them match wits
picturing them married,
she'd stepped aside
virtuous? No... realistic
were you jealous of her?
Sometimes... but not for long
when you played tennis together...
you were a real couple
and we failed
no man had touched Anne...
she'd be his
he'd be the first...
but not here, not in Paris
they'd go away
Claude borrowed an island cabin
on a Swiss lake
they'd go there for a week.
They'd try... draw closer
they were more resolute
than in love
tomorrow we must buy matches
a hot meal would be nice
wait... just for a moment
the 1st night, Anne pulled away
she put up a blanket as a curtain
Claude was to undress
on his own side
the island is pretty, isn't it?
I'm sure the old lady would sell it
I wonder how much she'd want
are you in bed?
May I come?
You're not answering
are you asleep?
It's very nice
tell me, Anne...
haven't you ever wanted a man?
There was one last summer...
much too handsome
his face was too symmetrical
I dreamed about him
I dreamed he kissed me there
I knew it, I was sure!
You have great curiosity
about men...
almost a divine curiosity
it will lead you
to have many lovers
think so?
I don't know
I only care about my work
I'll make statues, not babies
the 2nd night: More kisses
is the word "copain"
vulgar in french?
No, just colloquial
it means "friend"...
but warmer and more intimate
I'm your "copain" then?
Sometimes,
but we're more than that
"copains" don't kiss on the lips
with hearts racing
I'm tired of being a virgin,
but I'm afraid
afraid?
If you're afraid, we'll wait
you're not angry?
I'm glad we have time
nothing to say?
I'm listening to you...
watching you
I'm glad you're here
the 3rd night,
Anne seemed very busy
what are you doing?
I've decided
no curtain tonight
no blouse
no skirt
Anne... what is that?
Her underclothes were impossible.
Fashioned with a knife...
red flannel, military-looking
she removed them simply
and came to him nude
now, Claude
I'm ready now
are you sure?
I'm sure
not afraid any more?
It had to be...
I'm happy
because you wanted to...
but it's not yet... us
it was as if you were alone
the week ended.
Claude wanted to stay on
Anne refused saying:
"Now I see life differently"
"I can learn the rest alone
but I've only you, for love"
she was going home to England,
Claude to Paris, alone
Anne gave him one last nod
of farewell
they were free and it was good
monsieur Claude, your mail
thank you...
are you staying here now?
For a while
dear Claude,
I came home yesterday
this is some wallpaper
from our room
mother and Muriel are in bed
I cried
you're more real than my sculpture
I felt you kissing me yesterday...
Wednesday afternoon at 4
were you thinking of me then?
When I look in the mirror
I wish I'd given you more
Muriel knows I see you, that's all
I know you have other women
but I'm not jealous
3 months later,
Anne was back in Paris
on the stairs
he already wanted her profoundly
she'd changed... the "half-tomboy"
aspect was gone
she was a woman...
have you had breakfast?
No, I thought
I'd have it with you
but I've nothing here
their eyes met...
hers were now daring
their love-making was new
for them both
Anne now knew
how to use her body
how strange!
What?
To love someone so much
he realized it was 3 years ago
that he had first desired her
you're my breakfast
Claude... I'm too happy
I should have other lovers
I'll let you do the same
love me as much as you can
happiness can't be told,
but it wears down... unnoticed
in public,
Claude rediscovered Anne
she dressed better... smarter
they'd just made love,
yet she looked so virginal
Anne accepted Claude's ideas
on free love
he could have other affairs,
but she refused...
rejecting all offers
Diurka, a brawny Slav, spotted Anne.
He published...
art books.
Handsome in a way...
he had youthful eyes.
He liked her, he wanted her
Claude thought...
"if she likes him... she's free"
Claude saw what Anne meant
when she'd said...
"I'm always a success just after..."
Claude let the day go by,
the night...
next morning...
Claude, I must talk to you
come with me...
I'm listening
you already know
Diurka
he was here... when I knocked
do you love him?
I don't know yet
does he love you?
He came to see me.
He looked at my work...
made perceptive comments
he didn't leave
since this morning, we...
does it bother you?
Are you hurt?
I thought you...
true, but it's still a shock
anyway, I approve...
you're right
Diurka says
he's been alone for a year
I didn't want to,
I don't love him yet
then he wanted to...
Diurka's a fine person...
you think so, too?
He wants to take me to Persia
with him
I think I'll say No
Persia is magnificent
Anne, only your desires matter
you just met Diurka, go with him
I think you two need time alone
I shouldn't see you...
yes, you should!
So Anne had two regular lovers
they both knew,
Anne didn't hide it
the lovers suffered...
Anne thrived
before Persia,
their farewell lasted all night
dear Claude, you'd love Persia...
you were my life
I only missed you in one way,
I won't say which
your letter said...
"don't be afraid to love."
I obeyed
my uncle used to tell my aunt not to
fear being seasick... she often was
I'm home with Muriel
I'll be in Paris in 3 months...
Anne
Claude recognized Muriel's writing
he was afraid
she'd returned his letter
instead it was part of her diary...
probably
the most intimate confession...
that he would ever read
dear Claude,
we'll never meet again...
and surely that's best
but you mustn't believe I'm pure
I've something terrible to tell you
read my confession...
you'll see that we're even
I've learned from a leaflet...
that since childhood
I've had "nasty habits"
I've weakened my body and brain.
I've abused myself
now I know that I'm no longer
a pure woman
it's my duty to confess this to you
no shame will stop me,
I am what I am
if you thought of me as unsullied,
you were wrong
I was eight. A girl, Clarisse...
was first in class. I was second
she looked like a mischievous angel.
I was told to be like her
her family spent a week with us
Clarisse slept with me...
in place of Anne, who was away
in bed, she stripped...
and said I should, too
then she embraced me
I was devoted to her
two little girls
caressed all night...
one knowing, one docile
she taught me to touch
certain parts of my body...
one especially.
She convinced me...
not to talk about our secret
after she left
I sometimes did it alone
I didn't understand that part of me
I only knew it was private
and mustn't be seen
it wasn't to be mentioned
the habit would leave me alone...
then come back
I'd give into it... angry...
unable to stop
one sultry Sunday
when I was 17...
I was lying in a field
gazing at the sky
I gave in again...
driven by an unknown force
sometimes I thought of it...
as a way to get to sleep
and to warm my cold feet
but I hated being a slave to it
I fought it, twisting my hands...
face buried, pleading with god
if I couldn't go to sleep...
or think of something else...
I gave in,
then forbade myself to pray
here's a copy of a letter
from America
it has helped me
"my dear young friend...
"your appeal aroused my sympathy
"understand your plight
and feel no repugnance
"I admire your frankness
"if you give way, tell yourself...
"that it wasn't you
"you despise this act
"then jump out of bed...
"and take a cold bath
"don't waste time in self-reproach
"lead an active life, help others
"you learned this habit
despite yourself. It will cease
"best wishes..."
Muriel's confession aroused
more curiosity than emotion
Claude thought...
it was marketable.
He wanted to publish it...
anonymously, in a limited edition
Muriel refused,
not saying how he'd hurt her
"I've abused myself
"now I know that...
"I'm no longer a pure woman
"it's my duty
to confess this to you
"no shame will stop me
"I am what I am
"if you thought of me
as unsullied...
"now you know you were wrong"
it's all that's left?
Your properties cost more
than they bring in
repairs
on the rue de Bagnolet place...
wipe out the income
from the others
what do you advise?
Sell that one...
and keep the two others
I may have a buyer
I must ask my mother
go ahead... but quickly
buyers don't grow on trees
I'll wait...
I'm sorry to tire you, mother
it's dark in here...
light the gas
the lawyer says
to sell rue de Bagnolet
what do you think?
Whatever you do will be right
Claude was alone. He had lost
the most demanding of all his women
he was free to live his own life
how would he use his freedom?
Anne came back...
more mature... prettier.
Their love-making was restrained
don't look at me
what's this new modesty?
I've seen you naked so often
I'll turn around...
but remember Eurydice!
If our eyes meet, you'll die
what did you say?
Eurydice, the wife of Orpheus
Anne was meant
to love only one man
but if that man wasn't Claude...
she'd go against her instinct
I haven't been honest
there's something
I haven't told you
I didn't come to Paris alone
Diurka?
No, Diurka was Persia
that's finished
I brought Muriel with me
she's in Paris.
Do you want to see her?
I don't know...
I want to see her if she wants it
she wants it
she's afraid
she means nothing to you
she wants to see you
before leaving
does she know about us?
No, nothing at all
but she must be told
you're right... but not yet
no, not yet...
but it must be done
she'll be at my studio tonight...
4 years? Only yesterday!
Muriel held her hand out stiffly
as she had the first time they met
she could only remove her glasses...
once the curtains cut off the light
I've heard nothing from you in ages
nothing that counts
you didn't write, either
I couldn't
after you left, I lost
the normal use of my eyes
Anne was away
my left eye gave out first
and I nearly lost them both
I spent 3 months in total darkness
at that time I thanked god
for not giving you a blind wife
and now?
I'm getting better
I came here...
I was afraid, but I wanted to
Muriel's virtue frightened Claude
he thought of her
as unapproachable
he couldn't touch her
as he had Anne
he felt insincere,
yet he was deeply moved
the surprise came from Muriel
I loved you so much
I lived for you, Muriel
I knew joy and pain...
you're leaving?
You won't stay with me?
I can't...
I wanted to see you again, but...
I didn't expect to be so... affected
I don't know what I think...
or want
- I'll see you again.
- Are you sure?
I must leave now...
I must leave, Muriel!
I found you at last
here's a letter from Muriel
I know she's still in love with you
she says she loves me...
she wants to go away with me
you must accept
I know you love her, too
yes, I love her...
as much as I did before
you must talk to her first
you must tell her everything
yes
again Muriel had revealed...
the violence
of her suppressed love
Anne took her home
like an invalid
Muriel wrote Claude
a farewell letter
Anne told me everything,
she wasn't afraid to hurt me
I was horrified... now I'm calm
I know Anne loves you
and always will
she loved you first...
but silently renounced you
for my sake
my selfishness made me blind
she brought you to me...
almost had us engaged
if a woman like Anne or me
gives herself, she's married
do you want two wives
who are sisters?
Anne and I love the same man.
It's tragic but not unusual
I'll probably
always think about you
but part of me
has withdrawn from you
I leave for England in an hour
forgive me for our kiss
for the first time,
Claude suffered...
as he had made
so many others suffer
he was sunk in despair
locked in darkness for days...
he questioned his very identity
waiting for sleep, he'd repeat...
"I am nothing...
I understand nothing"
slowly he healed himself...
by writing a book.
"Jerome and Julien"...
was about a woman
who loved two men
it was his story, transposed
his love for the two sisters
by chance,
Diurka published the book
Claude was cool to him, at first.
Then he got to know and like him
how do you feel about it?
Mostly relieved
writing it, I was unhappy
I was miserable, because...
it stirred up memories.
Now I feel better...
as if the characters
had suffered for me
I understand
I liked your book very much
it stirred up memories for me, too
now I can tell you...
I didn't like you
you got on my nerves, too
Anne had only praise for you
that didn't help any!
Have you seen her?
I wanted to...
I heard she was engaged
to a mountain-climber
she must be married now
no... she broke her engagement
why?
I only know it's off,
I don't know why
still think about her?
Love stories
should be complete...
with a beginning,
middle and end
so our affair with Anne
is probably over
still, I wonder
why she didn't marry him
I know a good way to find out
go and ask her
filled with hope,
Diurka went to Wales
after Persia, he'd let Anne go
he'd been unable to show his love
now he'd convince her
they could start again
he'd persuade her
to come away with him
he'd ask Mrs brown
for Anne's hand
you remember me?
I came to see Anne
then you accept?
I have your word?
May I get Muriel?
I spoke to her.
She accepts now
thank you!
That was why
she broke her engagement
she knew she had tuberculosis
she was superb...
she never told her fiance
she let him think
she'd changed her mind...
that she was capricious
I arrived on a Sunday
Muriel was teaching in the garden
she explained everything
I saw Anne right away...
I persuaded her to see a doctor
she died that afternoon,
before he arrived
but why wouldn't she see a doctor?
She thought it wasn't serious?
I don't think so...
she knew she was dying
maybe it was pride, or heroism
before she died, she said
a beautiful but terrible thing...
"my mouth is full of earth"
how did Muriel take it?
Muriel is like those old women
who can't cry
over death any more
I've had news of Muriel...
from whom?
I've had news
she may go to Brussels
to teach English
she lands at Calais in 2 days
Calais?
Muriel, this is my room
shall we meet downstairs
in half an hour?
Fine
this way, madame...
Claude finally held Muriel,
after 7 years!
He made his intentions clear,
she could have run away
she didn't run away, she was ready
she was 30 years old...
she looked 20
she was new and fresh,
like snow in his hands
he persisted,
expecting her to resist
she did not resist.
She fought for the same goal
he forced her mouth open...
she wanted it, despite her fear
an unknown magnet
thrust them together
the ribbon burst...
less easily than Anne's
there was no tenderness
Claude's aim was
to arm Muriel against him
it was done
red stained her gold
what are you doing?
I'm leaving
why?
Come here...
dearest Claude...
I came to see you
to bury this thing
I'm glad you were the first...
because it's you,
because you wanted it
I shan't cry
listen to me as you once did...
when I told you
love was stirring in me
now I tell you that it must die...
so that I may live
we needn't separate
I took a long time,
but now you're my wife
it's the first time
I've felt so sure...
the very first time
we made love...
you may be pregnant
we'll go to Brittany
and wait for the baby...
by the sea
I was meant to be a mother
and I will be
but there's no room for me
in your life
our love is a dead end,
but it's not shameful
it mustn't be a dead end!
I'm asking you to be my wife
you never were
and never will be a husband
I'll add this...
my act was morally very serious...
but it was my decision
we're from different tribes...
we learned different customs
I'm a puritan in love...
you love me
because you're a bit crazy
please listen to me
it's all true,
but I'm another person now...
thanks to you
you're not my Claude any more
and it's too late to change
your value is in your work,
not in your children
you were my center...
and now I must lose you
we love a person...
for what he is.
We don't try to change him
if we succeeded,
he'd no longer be himself
you taught me love last night
your kisses made me dizzy...
I still hold you
I can live without eyes or legs...
I can live without you
I no longer fear life without you
your ideas sway me
when I'm with you...
afterward,
they shatter against my religion
I'm not sad for you,
you don't need me
god protect you
Claude saw Muriel off
they had half an hour
before her train
Muriel seemed happy and confident
she left and he was alone
between them...
was a dead girl they never named
only a birth
could banish the ghost...
by creating a different trio
"dear Claude,
we knew it might happen...
"and it did:
I'm expecting your child
"praise god, you're alive in me
"the paper is your flesh,
the ink, my blood
"I press to make it enter"
then she wrote again...
this letter is bordered in black
I'm not pregnant after all
it was simply
my deep desire to be
we shan't meet again,
however much I want to
we couldn't surpass
our night in Calais
we recognize happiness
only afterwards
fifteen years have passed
Muriel is married to a schoolteacher
they have a daughter
Mrs brown is dead, the house sold
letters to the browns are returned
fifteen years...
France is snown
with corpses and shrapnel
millions have died...
few remember why
fifteen years...
Claude visits the Rodin museum
the statue of Balzac
is now acclaimed
Claude hears English voices...
schoolgirls, visiting France.
He remembers...
Muriel's photo at ten...
and looks for some resemblance
could her daughter be there?
This one?
That one?
Or the redhead?
Claude looks at them
he could ask:
"Is one of you
Muriel brown's daughter?"
No. What's the use...
are you free?
I have a fare
what's wrong with me today?
I look old!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org